---
author: Abdul Rahim
title: keep contributing
date: "24 July 2024"
---


# ways to contribute to the kernel

- Subscribe to the Linux Kernel mailing list for the area of your
  interest.
- Follow the development activity reading the Linux Kernel Mailing List
  Archives.
- Find spelling errors in kernel messages.
- Static code analysis error fixing: Static code analysis is the process
  of detecting errors and flaws in the source code. The Linux kernel

---

- Makefile can be invoked with options to enable to run the Sparse
  source code checker on all source files, or only on the re-compiled
files.
    - Compile the kernel with the source code checker enabled and find
      errors and fix as needed.  

- Fix the Syzbot null pointer dereference and WARN bug reports which
  include the reproducer to analyze. 
    - Run the reproducer to see if you can reproduce the problem. 
    - Look at the crash report and walk through sources for a possible
      cause. You might be able to fix problems.  

---

- Look for opportunities to add/update `.gitignore` files for tools and
  Kselftest. Build tools and Kselftest and run git status. **If there
are binaries**, then it is time to add a new .gitignore file and/or an
entry to an existing .gitignore file.  

- Run mainline kernels built with the `CONFIG_KASAN`, Locking debug
  options mentioned earlier in the debugging section, and report
problems if you see any. This gives you an opportunity to debug and fix
problems. The community welcomes fixes and bug reports
